Expressive Pragmatics and Prosody in Young Preschoolers are More Closely Related to Structural Language than to Mentalizing
Mariia ProninaOrcid Logo
a, Pilar PrietoOrcid Logo
b, Luca BischettiOrcid Logo
c, and Valentina BambiniOrcid Logo
c
aDepartment of Translation and Language Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain; bDepartment of Translation and Language Sciences, ICREA-Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona,Spain; cDepartment of Humanities and Life Sciences, University School for Advanced Studies IUSS Pavia, Pavia, Italy
ABSTRACT
Pragmatics lies at the point where language meets the social world and encompasses both the linguistic and the social dimensions of communica-tion. However, the relationship between pragmatic abilities, other language skills, and socio-cognitive aspects such as mentalizing is still a matter of wide debate. This study sets out to investigate the status of pragmatic abilities by testing from a developmental angle their relationship with other linguistic skills and mentalizing. We examined the role of structural language and mentalizing on both expressive pragmatic and prosodic skills in typically developing preschool children. A total of 105 3-to 4-year-old children were assessed on pragmatics and prosody with the Audiovisual Pragmatic Test, as well as on structural language skills (vocabulary and syntax) and a series of mentalizing measures (false belief, emotion understanding, and metacogni-tive vocabulary). A combined approach including correlations, regressions, and structural equation modeling (SEM) was used. Structural language was a strong positive predictor of both pragmatic and prosodic scores, while mentalizing predicted neither pragmatic nor prosodic performance. We suggest that in preschool years, expressive pragmatics and prosodic skills are more closely related to structural language skills than to mentalizing.
Introduction
Pragmatics typically refers to the rules of language use, as opposed to language structure (Sperber & Wilson, 2005). In this sense, pragmatics lies at the point where language and the social world meet: on the one hand, it deals with how we communicate via linguistic means to express different speech acts (i.e., basic units of human communication, expressing speaker intentions, for example, a request, a greeting, an apology, etc., Levinson, 1983); on the other hand, pragmatics is concerned with the social dimension, as language adapts to the situational context (which includes aspects such as social conventions, rules of politeness, knowledge and believes of the interlocutors, see Brown & Levinson, 1987). The consequence of this two-fold nature of pragmatics is that it can be regarded as belonging both to language competence, along with more structural language skills such as syntax, vocabulary, etc., and to a domain closely related to social cognition abilities, understood as those abilities that allow us to interact effectively with others (C. D. Frith & Frith, 2007). Among social cognition abilities, pragmatics seems to be especially related to mentalizing, indicating the ability to infer others＊ mental and emotional states (U. Frith & Frith, 2003; Hooker et al., 2008), which is also sometimes referred to as Theory and Mind or mindreading. However, the relationship between pragmatics, other language skills, and mentalizing has been a matter of wide debate and theoretical models vary in CONTACT Mariia Pronina Envelope Logo
mariia.pronina@upf.edu Postal Address Icon
Department of Translation and Language Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Roc Boronat, 138, Barcelona, 08018 Spain
LANGUAGE LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT        https://doi.org/10.1080/15475441.2022.2074852
TandF Logo
Crossmark Logo
. 2022 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC 
how they address this issue. Here, we tackle the status of pragmatic ability and its relationship with the other skills from a developmental perspective, bringing novel evidence based on pre-school children.
In the linguistic tradition, pragmatics is viewed as a domain of language competence, either pertaining to phenomena that cannot be resolved within grammar and other linguistic levels (Ariel, 2010) or projecting onto any aspect of language, from syntax to semantics, and specifying the condition of use of language in general (Akmajian et al., 2010; Verschueren, 2012). Conversely, approaches inspired by Grice highlight the role of pragmatics as the social-cognitive capacity for human communication (Sperber & Wilson, 2002; Wilson, 2005). According to this framework, pragmatics is the ability to inferentially attribute intentions in communication and derive the speaker＊s meaning. In this way, pragmatics is often regarded as a part of social cognition, rather than of language, and specifically as a communication-specific submodule of mentalizing (Sperber & Wilson, 2002; Scott-Phillips, 2017). A third view has emerged more recently from empirical research in the developmental and clinical fields. Here, authors seem to acknowledge the complexity of the relationship between pragmatics, other language skills, and the broad domain of social cognition. In this perspective, a few models of the pragmatic capacity have been proposed, which regard it as a ※cup of competence§ fed into by language and social cognition functions (e.g., understanding of mental and emotional states), among others (Hyter, 2017; Snow & Douglas, 2017). The specific relationships between these domains, however, vary considerably depending on the age and the ability being tested.
Focusing more closely on the empirical research on development, we often see that the literature adopted a correlational approach to investigating the interplay between pragmatics and other linguis-tic and mentalizing skills. When describing the results offered by this literature, a distinction should be made between preschool and school-aged children. The few studies on typically developing preschool children mostly indicate that pragmatic skills do not systematically correlate with ToM (Bernard & Deleau, 2007; Angeleri & Airenti, 2014; Banasik, 2013; Bosco & Gabbatore, 2017a, 2017b), whereas the correlation with structural language skills seems to be stronger and more consistent across studies (Bernard & Deleau, 2007; Angeleri & Airenti, 2014). Conversely, the more numerous studies on school-age children suggest that the relationship between pragmatics and ToM becomes more robust later in development (Winner & Leekam, 1991; Filippova & Astington, 2008, 2014; Nilsen et al., 2011; Massaro et al., 2013; De Rosnay et al., 2014; Lecce et al., 2019; Del Sette et al., 2020). It should also be noted that this literature investigated mostly receptive pragmatic skills, paying particular attention to the understanding of nonliteral language, such as metaphors and irony (e.g., Banasik, 2013; Angeleri & Airenti, 2014; Bosco & Gabbatore, 2017b), while it neglected expressive aspects of pragmatic skills, such as producing speech to express different communicative intentions (i.e., producing speech acts), while also adjusting for social context and interlocutors.
Here, we consider also prosody, which is especially relevant since it can affect the heart of expressive pragmatics and plays an important role in encoding and decoding pragmatic meanings (Culpeper, 2011). For instance, prosodic modifications in speech are used to distinguish speech acts and signal politeness and other social aspects (Prieto, 2015). Children rely heavily on these prosodic cues when communicating (Esteve-Gibert et al., 2017; Chen, 2018; Ito, 2018). However, our understanding of children＊s use of prosody is far from comprehensive, with prior research mostly focusing on very early stages and not fully integrating work on preschoolers (Chen et al., 2020). Moreover, research on the development of prosody has often been restricted to the description of intonational pitch contours (see Frota & Butler, 2018, for a review), without considering the true pragmatic implications of prosodic skills, such as, for instance, how prosody supports the production of different speech acts.
To our knowledge, there is a dearth of studies systematically assessing possible associations between prosody, structural language, and mentalizing in development. When focusing on the relationship between prosody and structural language, some studies have reported positive corre-lations. For instance, one investigation reported that prosodic segmentation abilities are concur-rently correlated with vocabulary scores in atypical development (Frota et al., 2020). Other evidence of a link between prosody and structural language comes from studies that showed the bootstrapping role of prosody in language acquisition (see de Carvalho et al., 2018; Thorson, 2018, for reviews). Similarly, vocal cues are shown to be crucial for mental state, intention, and emotion comprehension (Armstrong & H邦bscher, 2018; see also Esteve-Gibert et al., 2020; Esteve-Gibert & Prieto, 2018). Nevertheless, other studies on atypical development offer less straightforward results on the relationship between prosody and mentalizing. For instance, several studies reported that children and adolescents with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) use prosodic cues to judge speaker ironic intent or speaker states as well as age-matched controls do (Chevallier et al., 2011; Pexman et al., 2011; Colich et al., 2012). These studies concluded that impaired mentalizing skills do not necessarily cause difficulties with mindreading based on the perception of prosody, which potentially weakens the idea of a relationship between mentalizing and receptive prosodic abilities.
The present study
The present study aims to overcome the limitations of the previous developmental literature by jointly testing the role of structural language and mentalizing skills on pragmatics. First, past research rarely focused on expressive pragmatic skills; second, it neglected prosody, which is highly relevant in relation to pragmatics; third, it devoted little attention to preschoolers. Finally, the range of language and mentalizing measures is often limited to vocabulary knowledge, for language, and false belief understanding, for mentalizing, neglecting other components, such as syntax and emotion recogni-tion. Given this scenario, this study seeks to provide fresh insight into the developmental research on pragmatic abilities by investigating the relative role of a range of structural language and mentalizing skills in communicative abilities involving (a) expressive pragmatic skills; and (b) expressive prosodic skills in young preschool children.
To achieve this, we employed a recently developed assessment tool that evaluates expressive pragmatic and prosodic abilities in children (i.e., Audiovisual Pragmatic Test, APT, Pronina et al., 2019) by looking at speech act production from the point of view of pragmatics and prosody. Moreover, we included in the assessment various components of mentalizing (i.e., false belief, metacognitive vocabulary, and emotion understanding) and structural language (i.e., vocabulary and syntax).
Although the previous literature did not comprehensively address the relationship between prag-matics, prosody, and other language and mentalizing abilities, previous research allows us to make a set of predictions. First, following Angeleri and Airenti (2014), Banasik (2013), Bernard and Deleau (2007) and Bosco and Gabbatore (2017a, 2017b), we hypothesized that expressive pragmatic skills would be related to structural language. Second, in line with Frota et al. (2020), we predicted that preschoolers＊ expressive prosodic abilities would be associated with their structural linguistic skills. However, we expected weaker or no correlations between pragmatic skills and mentalizing (Bernard & Deleau, 2007; Banasik, 2013; Angeleri & Airenti, 2014; Bosco & Gabbatore, 2017a, 2017b), as well as weaker or no correlations between prosodic abilities and mentalizing (Chevallier et al., 2011; Pexman et al., 2011; Colich et al., 2012).
To test these hypotheses, we used several statistical techniques, including correlations, regres-sions, and Structural Equation Modeling (SEM). SEM is one of the most comprehensive statistical approaches to testing hypotheses about the relationship between variables (Hoyle, 1995) and it has been used in recent studies addressing the relationship between pragmatics and Theory of Mind (Bischetti et al., 2019). SEM has the advantage of simultaneously considering the relation-ships between multiple independent and dependent variables in a single model. Moreover, it captures latent (unobserved) constructs and tests both direct and indirect effects (Kline, 2005), which makes this method ideal for testing the predictive power of different constructs in pragmatic and prosodic development and to map the network of unique relationships among predictors.
Methods
Participants
A total of 117 3-to 4-year-old children were initially enrolled in the study. All of them were typically developing children with no history of speech, language, or hearing difficulties. Children were recruited from two public schools in Barcelona, a Catalan-Spanish bilingual area, where the main language of instruction is Catalan. Parents gave written consent and filled out questionnaires con-cerning their occupational status (i.e., the International Socio-Economic Index, Ganzeboom et al., 1992) and their children＊s exposure to Catalan (Bosch & Sebasti芍n-Gall谷s, 2001). The study was approved by the ethics committee of the Universitat Pompeu Fabra. The sample was collected as a part of a larger developmental project and was included in previous studies analyzing prosodic development (Pronina, H邦bscher, Vil角-Gim谷nez, et al., 2021) and the effects of training interventions (Pronina, H邦bscher, Holler, et al., 2021).
In order to ensure that the children had sufficient language skills to undertake the verbal tasks of the study, a criterion for participation was set at a minimum of 20% completion of the expressive vocabulary test taken from the standardized language battery Evaluaci車n de Lenguaje Infantil, ELI (Saborit Mallol & Juli芍n Marz芍, 2005). This criterion is based on the normative data provided in the validation of the test (Saborit Mallol & Juli芍n Marz芍, 2005) and corresponds to the lowest value (6 items out of 30) obtained by typically-developing 3-year-old children. Taking into account this exclusion criterion, the final sample included 105 children1 (47 boys and 58 girls); their ages ranged from 3;3 to 4;3 (M = 3;9, SD = 3.25 months).
Assessment materials and procedure
Children were tested individually in a quiet classroom, in two testing sessions of about 20 minutes each. The order of tests was constant across participants: emotion understanding, metacognitive vocabulary, false belief, vocabulary, syntax, and the test of expressive pragmatics and prosody. All testing was conducted in Catalan by the first author or three research assistants and was video recorded. Before the assessment, the examiners underwent training sessions in which they were provided with scoring guidelines, examples, and feedback. The scoring of each test was carried out online by the examiner; the scores of the expressive pragmatics and prosody test were checked additionally offline by the first author and corrected if necessary. The final offline-corrected APT scores were used for the analysis. In scoring the performance of Catalan-Spanish bilinguals, in line with previous research on bilingual populations (e.g., Gross et al., 2014), we accepted answers both in Catalan and Spanish, two closely related Romance languages. Moreover, in the analysis of the data, we additionally examined the effect of the child＊s exposure to Catalan on their performance in all the other tests.
Mentalizing measures
The three measures used here come from a commonly employed set of tests for the assessment of preschoolers＊ mentalizing skills (e.g., Grazzani & Ornaghi, 2011; Ornaghi et al., 2011).
Emotion understanding.
We used the Catalan translation of the Spanish version of the Emotion Matching Task, which assesses emotion comprehension in preschool children (3 to 6 years) and has been shown to have good internal consistency and concurrent validity (Alonso-Alberca et al., 2012). This task measured the understanding of four main emotions (happiness, sadness, anger, fear/ surprise) and consisted of two subtests. In the first subtest (12 items), children were presented with 1Prosodic data were available for 86 participants, due to missing or poor-quality audiovisual recordings, and SES data were available for 94 children, since not all parents provided information about their occupations (89% of parents completed questionnaire responses). Data for the rest of the variables are based on the full sample of 105 participants.four pictures expressing different emotions and were then asked which one better matched a given situation. Each correct answer received 1 point. In the second subtest (12 items), children were presented with a picture expressing an emotion and asked to name it. Each correct answer was scored as either 1 or 2 points, depending on the child＊s accuracy in labeling emotions. Total scores ranged from 0 to 36.
Metacognitive vocabulary.
The children＊s comprehension of mental state verbs was assessed using the Metacognitive Vocabulary Test (Pelletier & Astington, 1998), which was specifically developed for preschool children (3 to 7 years) and reported to have good internal consistency and interrater reliability (Lockl & Schneider, 2006; Massaro et al., 2014). The test was translated into Catalan. In line with the procedure previously applied with preschoolers (e.g., Ornaghi et al., 2011), children were read a subset of stories (n = 6) accompanied by illustrations and were then asked to select which of the two presented metacognitive verbs (e.g., ※know,§ ※guess§) correctly described the mental state of the character. Children were given 1 point for each correct choice. Total scores ranged from 0 to 6.
False belief (FB).
Following previous research (e.g., Atkinson et al., 2017; Mathews et al., 2003), we used two classic tasks to assess FB: the Unexpected Content Task (UCT, ※Smarties§ task, Gopnik & Astington, 1988) and the Unexpected Location Task (ULT, ※Sally and Ann§ task, Baron-Cohen et al., 1985). These tasks have been used in different languages and are demonstrated to be reliable and valid measures of FB understanding (Wellman et al., 2001), with good internal consistency (KR-21 value of .82 for UCT and of .78 for ULT, Girli & Tekin, 2010), excellent interrater reliability (Cohen＊s kappa of 1.00 for UCT and of .92 for ULT, Atkinson et al., 2017), moderate test-retest reliability (kappa value of .53 for UCT and of .62 for ULT, Hughes et al., 2000), and good convergent validity against other false belief tasks (r coefficient of .67 for ULT, Hiller et al., 2014; r coefficient ranging from .38 to .70 for UCT, Mahy et al., 2017). In the UCT, children were shown a Lacasitos tube (analogous to Smarties tube in Catalonia) and were asked two false belief questions about the contents of the tube. One point was awarded for each correct answer. In the ULT, children saw a video (from Armstrong et al., 2018) showing the transfer of a ball from one location to another and were asked one false belief and one control question. They were awarded 1 point for each correct answer. Considering UCT and ULT together, the total composite FB score ranged from 0 to 4.
Structural language measures
Vocabulary.
We used the vocabulary test from the validated Catalan battery Evaluaci車n de Lenguaje Infantil, ELI, which showed good internal consistency and construct validity (Saborit Mallol & Juli芍n Marz芍, 2005). The test included 30 pictures denoting common objects, such as a tree or a bridge, and the child was asked to name them. Correct answers, either in Catalan or Spanish, received 1 point. Total scores ranged from 0 to 30.
Syntax.
We tested syntax with a task created along the lines of previous reliable and valid assessment tools for syntax abilities in preschoolers (e.g., the Comprehensive Assessment of Spoken Language 2, CASL-2, Carrow-Woolfolk, 2017). This task was made up of 16 items testing different syntactic structures. The child was asked to finish an incomplete sentence or formulate a novel one according to visual and verbal prompts. For example, the beginning of a sentence was read to the child and they had to complete it (e.g., ※This boy is standing. This boy [is sitting]§). In this task, children＊s answers were always given in Catalan, but in principle Spanish was also accepted. Each correct answer was given 1 point. Total scores ranged from 0 to 16.
Expressive pragmatic and prosodic skills
Children＊s expressive pragmatic and prosodic abilities were evaluated using the Audiovisual Pragmatic Test (APT, Pronina et al., 2019). The APT assesses the production of a broad range of speech acts (e.g., requests and declaratives) that are typical of the child＊s day-to-day life. The speech acts are elicited through scenarios (n = 35) that represent everyday social contexts and are accompanied with illustrations. For instance, the participant is presented with a picture showing an adult cutting a cake while next to a child, and prompted with this instruction ※Imagine that your aunt is cutting a cake. You are very hungry and want to ask her for a piece of cake. What would you say?,§ which is expected to trigger a request speech act (see Figure 1; see OSF project2 for full materials in Catalan and English translation).
From this test, two scores were extracted: one referring to expressive pragmatic competence and one referring to expressive prosodic competence.
Expressive pragmatic skills.
Each answer was evaluated in terms of appropriateness, that is, whether the answer appropriately expressed the target speech act and the degree to which it was socially adequate in the given context. An answer was given 2 points if the produced speech act was of high pragmatic quality, meaning that the child managed to express the intended speech act and reacted to the contextual situation in a socially appropriate way; there were several possible appropriate answers for each item (e.g., ※Can I have a piece of cake?,§ ※Can I have some cake, please?,§ etc., for the situation in Figure 1). An answer was given 1 point if the child managed to produce the intended speech act but showed some lack of social adjustment (e.g., ※Give me,§ ※I want cake,§ etc., for the situation in Figure 1). The answer was given a 0 score if the child did not give any answer or produced an answer that did not match the intended speech act (e.g., ※Thank you,§ ※Yes,§ etc., for the situation in Figure 1). Pragmatic scores were calculated as sum scores and ranged from 0 to 70. For more details on coding, see Pronina, H邦bscher, Vil角-Gim谷nez, et al. (2021).
Expressive prosodic skills.
Each answer was evaluated for prosody and, in line with previous research (Papakyritsis, 2021; Rasinski, 2004), this was done on a perceptual basis, that is, based on how appropriate and natural the prosody of the answer sounded to the trained coder. The answer received 2 points for prosody if the answer was pragmatically appropriate and the child used direct speech employing natural sounding prosody consistent with the situation in the presented scenario (e.g., ※Can I have a piece of cake?§ with request intonation, for the situation in Figure 1). The answer 

Figure 1. 
Example item of the Audiovisual Pragmatic Test. The item is intended to elicit a request and includes the question asked orally and the illustration shown to the child.
2https://osf.io/pyc34/?view_only = c5cfa653094a454dae1990fcbc8722c9received 1 point if it was pragmatically appropriate and the child used direct speech but there was a mismatch between the intended pragmatic meaning and the prosody used, rendering the answer unnatural-sounding (e.g., ※Can I have a piece of cake?§ with flat intonation, for the situation in Figure 1). Finally, the answer received 0 points if the child did not give any answer or did not use direct speech and, therefore, the answer was not eligible for prosodic evaluation (e.g., ※I would say that... § for the situation in Figure 1). A 0 score was given also to answers that were not pragmatically appropriate (i.e., they received a 0 in the pragmatic score). This was done because when the target speech act is not produced, it is not possible to observe the target prosody (e.g., the prosody of an inappropriate pragmatic answer such as ※Thank you§ for the situation in Figure 1 cannot correspond to the target prosody of request). Prosodic scores were calculated as sum scores and ranged from 0 to 70.
The APT has already been used for the assessment of pragmatic and prosodic abilities in previous research (e.g., Castillo et al., 2021; Pronina, H邦bscher, Holler, et al., 2021). Here we further analyzed its internal consistency, reliability, and validity.
Data analysis
Prior to the main analyses, a psychometric evaluation of the APT was conducted.
Then we investigated the association between pragmatic and prosodic ability, on the one hand, and both structural language and mentalizing, on the other hand, in three different ways. First, we used a correlational approach in order to explore existing relationships between all measurements, also including age, SES, and the child＊s exposure to Catalan.
Second, we investigated the predictive role of structural language and mentalizing in pragmatics, as well as in prosody, by means of (separate) multiple regressions. Independent variables were standar-dized before being entered into the analysis, and potential collinearity across predictors was checked. The condition number k was 1.89, thus showing no sign of multicollinearity (Baayen, 2008). Accordingly, all predictors were included in each regression analysis. In fitting separate models onto each dependent variable (namely pragmatics and prosody), we first ran a full multiple linear regression model with all structural language and mentalizing measures, together with age, as predictors. Then, stepwise model selection based on the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) was used to choose from among all possible predictors. In all regression models, adjusted R2 was used as a measure of explained variance.
Third, we used Structural Equation Modeling (SEM, Bollen, 1989) to further investigate the relative role of structural language, mentalizing, and age in predicting pragmatic and prosodic scores. Consistent with the regression analyses, we built two separate SEM models: one for pragmatics and the other for prosody. When designing the SEM models, we selected measures of mentalizing and structural language on the basis of the multiple regression results; specifically, we included the measures that were kept in the stepwise models. Then, we specified the single latent variables for structural language and mentalizing, that is, the hypothetical unobservable constructs underlying observed variables. In all measurement models, the variance of all latent variables was fixed to 1, all other factor loadings were freely estimated. Standardized estimates were reported. The commonly used criteria for assessing the acceptability of structural models were adopted (Kline, 2005): compara-tive fit index (CFI), Tucker Lewis index (TLI), the standardized root mean square residual (SRMR), and the root-mean square error of approximation (RMSEA). In line with the literature, CFI and TLI values of .95 or higher were taken as indicative of a very good model fit, while values between .90 and .95 were considered indicative of an acceptable fit. SRMR values less than .08 were considered indicative of a good fit (Bentler, 1990; Hu & Bentler, 1999). For RMSEA, we considered values below .05 as indicative of a very good fit and values in the range of .05 and 0.08 as pointing to an acceptable model fit (Hu & Bentler, 1999). In addition, we also reported a 90% confidence interval (CI) for RMSEA values, acknowledging that for small sample sizes these values may be biased (Iacobucci, 2010; Schreiber, 2008).
All statistical analyses were performed with R, release 3.6.1 (R Core Team, 2020). The SEM analysis was conducted using the lavaan package, version 0.6每6 (Rosseel, 2012). For the dataset and codes, see the section Data availability statement.
Results
Psychometric properties of the APT
When analyzing the psychometric properties of the APT, we considered its internal consistency, interrater reliability, test-retest reliability, convergent validity, and content validity. The internal consistency of the whole APT was excellent (Cronbach＊s 汐 = .91).
Interrater reliability of the scoring system was analyzed using 25% of the data (26 participants, 910 responses). Two additional coders who did not participate in the original coding of data were specifically trained to evaluate responses and performed the scoring offline by watching video recordings of testing sessions. The final APT scores and the scores awarded by the two additional coders were used to calculate the interrater reliability. Overall agreement in scores was 83% for pragmatic scores and 87% for prosodic scores. Interrater agreement, measured with Fleiss kappa, was .79 for pragmatic scores and .81 for prosodic scores, indicating high agreement (Fleiss et al., 1981).
The test-retest reliability was conducted on a subset of 10 participants, who were administered the APT twice, with an interval of 4 weeks. The correlations between the APT scores were strong and significant for both pragmatics (r(8) = .83, p = .003) and prosody (r(8) = .86, p = .001), indicating good test-retest reliability. Additional analyses suggested the test-retest stability of the APT, as no practice effects were found for either pragmatics (t(9) = .1.39, p = .199) or prosody (t(9) = .1.69, p = .129).
Convergent validity was supported by the significant positive correlation between the APT and another task assessing narrative pragmatic abilities, namely, the Renfrew Bus Story Test3 (Renfrew, 2006) (r(103) = .28, p = .004). Furthermore, the content validity analysis was based on the data provided by four experts in linguistics and psychology, who rated the test items on a 5-point Likert scale. They were presented with the test stimulus for each item, and were then asked whether they agreed that that item was appropriate for assessing the target speech act (e.g., ※This item adequately measures the child＊s ability to produce a request. Do you agree with this statement?§, for the example in Figure 1), with 5 being ※I completely agree§ and 1 being ※I completely disagree.§ For all items, the mean value was above 4.25 (for the table showing the content validity of each item, see additional analysis at the OSF repository, linked in the section Data availability statement), indicating the high content validity of the tool.
Overall, all analyses showed good results in terms of psychometric properties, demonstrating that the APT is a reliable, valid, and robust instrument for assessing pragmatic abilities in early childhood.
Descriptive statistics and bivariate correlations
Descriptive statistics for the APT, mentalizing and structural language tests, age, socio-economic status (SES), and Catalan language exposure are shown in Table 1.
Simple bivariate correlations between measures are shown in Table 2. The correlational analysis revealed moderate correlations (rs(103) = .39每.55, ps < .001) between pragmatics and structural language scores (i.e., syntax and vocabulary), as well as between prosody and structural language measures. By contrast, correlations between pragmatics and prosody, on one hand, and measures of mentalizing, on the other hand, were generally weaker. In particular, a moderate correlation was found with FB (r(103) = .35, p < .001 for pragmatics; r(84) = .40, p < .001 for prosody), but the correlations with the other mentalizing measures were smaller (rs >.20, ps < .05) or even not 3The Renfrew Bus Story Test is a comprehensive measure of narrative skills, and it is widely used for eliciting story retelling in preschool and young school-aged children.significant. Moreover, scores of mentalizing tests were not significantly correlated with each other. Unlike mentalizing measures, scores of structural language tests were significantly correlated (r (103) = .27, p = .01). Finally, some significant correlations (rs(103) = .24每.25, ps < .05) were found between mentalizing (FB and emotion understanding) and syntax, but not between mentalizing and vocabulary (rs(103) = .11每.19, ps > .05). Age was positively correlated with all the measures (rs >.20, ps < .04) but emotion understanding (r(103) = .17, p = .09). SES, by contrast, was not correlated with any of the other variables (rs < .11, ps > .30), and was therefore left out of further analyses.
We additionally checked whether the percentage of a child＊s exposure to Catalan could possibly influence their performance in language and mentalizing tests. Catalan language exposure was not correlated with any measure (rs < .18, ps > .07) and was excluded from further analyses.
Multiple regressions
Predicting pragmatic skills
The full model, that is, the first multiple regression model that included all structural language measures (syntax, vocabulary), all mentalizing measures (FB, metacognitive vocabulary, and emotion understanding), and age as predictors was run. In this model, only structural language measures turned out to be predictive of pragmatic skills (汕 = 4.11, p < .001 for syntax and 汕 = 1.99, p = .02 for vocabulary). None of the measures of mentalizing were a significant predictor of pragmatic scores (汕 = 1.27, p = .14, 汕 = .63, p = .43, and 汕 = .91, p = .26, for FB, metacognitive Table 1. Means, standard deviations, and range of observed values, age, socio-economic status, and percentage of Catalan language exposure.M SD Range of observed scores 

Audiovisual Pragmatic Test 
Pragmatics Prosody 13.90 14.85 10.16 12.12 0每46 0 每 56 
Age (in months) 44.90 3.25 39每51 
Structural language 
Syntax 2.74 1.42 0每7 
Vocabulary 11.52 2.83 6每22 
Mentalizing 
False belief 1.59 0.96 0每4 
Emotion understanding 16.20 6.83 0每27 
Metacognitive vocabulary 3.01 1.19 0每6 
Socio-economic status 61.16 12.73 27每85 
Catalan language exposure (%) 56.27 22.93 0每100 


Table 2. Bivariate correlations among measures (structural language and mentalizing measures, age, socio-economic status, and percentage of Catalan language exposure).Variable 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 

Audiovisual Pragmatic Test 
1. Pragmatics 每 
2. Prosody .93*** 每 
3. Age .38*** .35** 每 
Structural language 
4. Syntax .55*** .48*** .21* 每 
5. Vocabulary .39*** .43*** .28** .27* 每 
Mentalizing 
6. False belief .35*** .40*** .40*** .25* .19 每 
7. Emotion understanding .26* .23* .17 .24* .11 .15 每 
8. Metacognitive vocabulary .20* .10 .20* .13 .11 .10 .18 每 
9. Socio-economic status .07 .12 ..09 .05 .06 ..04 .04 ..11 每 
10. Catalan language exposure .04 .05 ..13 ..11 ..08 ..00 .18 ..01 ..05 每 

Note: *p < .05, **p < .01, and ***p < .001.

vocabulary, and emotion comprehension, respectively), while neither was age (汕 = 1.63, p = .07). This model accounted for 40% of the variance of the dependent variable (R2 = .40, F(6,98) = 12.77, p < .001). Overall, results from the full model indicated a positive relationship between the structural language scores and the pragmatic scores.
The stepwise model for pragmatics selected on the basis of the AIC included the two structural language measures, FB and age, as predictors. This model showed that syntax, vocabulary, and age were significant predictors of pragmatic scores (汕 = 4.34, p < .001, 汕 = 2.04, p = .01, and 汕 = 1.83, p = .04, respectively), while the role of FB was still limited and not significant (汕 = 1.33, p = .12). These factors together explained 40% of the variance (R2 = .40, F (4,100) = 18.57, p < .001). The results of the two multiple regression models on pragmatic scores are reported in Figure 2.
Predicting prosodic skills
The full model investigated a number of predictors (measures of structural language, mentaliz-ing, and age) of prosodic scores. In this model, three measures were significant predictors of prosodic ability: syntax (汕 = .30, p < .01), vocabulary (汕 = .27, p = .01), and FB (汕 = .21, p = .04). Emotion understanding (汕 = .11, p = .25), metacognitive vocabulary (汕 = ..04, p = .65), and age (汕 = .11, p = .26) were not predictive. This model explained 36% of the dependent variable variance (R2 = .36, F(6,79) = 8.85, p < .001). Results from this model indicated a positive relationship between the structural language and FB scores, on the one hand, and the prosodic scores, on the other hand.


Figure 2. 
Forest plot showing the results of the two multiple regression analyses (full model and stepwise model) for pragmatics.
The stepwise model for prosody selected on the basis of AIC included three scores, that is, syntax, vocabulary, and FB. All three variables were significant predictors of prosodic competence (汕 = 3.68, p < .001, 汕 = 3.30, p = .00, and 汕 = 2.51, p = .01, for syntax, vocabulary, and FB respectively). These factors together explained 36% of the variance (R2 = .36, F(3,82) = 16.76, p < .001). The results of the two multiple regression models on prosodic scores are reported in Figure 3.
Structural equation models
Model of pragmatic skills
First, we assessed a two latent factor measurement model. Specifically, we tested whether the answers to the UCT were loaded to a FB latent factor4 and whether syntax and vocabulary scores were loaded onto a single structural language latent factor. The results showed that both latent factors were significantly loaded (汕 = .90, p < .001 and 汕 = .96, p < .001 for FB and 汕 = .59, p < .001 and 汕 = .44, p = .001 for structural language). Then pragmatic scores were regressed on the FB latent factor and the structural language latent factor. Also, the FB latent factor and the structural language latent factor were specified as covariates in order to control for their mutual influence. Age was included as an exogenous control variable. The structural model showed good fit indices, 聿2(5) = 6.16, p = .29, CFI = .988, TLI = .977, RMSEA = .047, 90% CI [.00, .15], SRMR = .044.


Figure 3. 
Forest plot showing the results of the two multiple regression analyses (full model and stepwise model) for prosody.
4The other FB measure, that is, the ULT, was not included in the FB latent factor since the answers to both false belief and control questions in this task were not correlated with the results of the UCT. For the sake of rigor and completeness, we also ran complementary analyses using an SEM model with the composite FB score (based on both UCT and ULT scores). The reported SEM model with the latent FB factor based on the UCT scores only and the SEM model with the composite FB score highlighted the same pattern of results.LANGUAGE LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT11Next, we examined the relationships between the variables in a structural model. Similar to the multiple regression results, the SEM model indicated that only structural language was a strong significant predictor of pragmatics (汕 = .90, p < .001), while FB was not (汕 = .01, p = .96). The covariance path between structural language and FB fell short of significance (汕 = .30, p = .10) after we controlled for the effect of the exogenous variable of age, which was significantly associated with both FB (汕 = .49, p < .001) and structural language (汕 = .44, p = .01). However, the direct effect of age on pragmatics was not significant (汕 = ..03, p = .89), and age did not exert a robust indirect effect on pragmatics through structural language (汕 = .40, p = .06). The specified model is presented in Figure 4.
Model of prosodic skills
We preliminarily tested a measurement model for prosody. This model included the same latent factors as the SEM model for pragmatics (structural language and FB5), which were specified as predictors of prosodic ability and covariates. The control variable of age was specified as predictor of all other variables. The measurement model showed that both latent factors were significantly loaded (汕 = .87, p < .001 and 汕 = .95, p < .001 for FB and 汕 = .55, p < .001 and 汕 = .51, p < .001 for structural language). The structural model fit indices were CFI = .953, TLI = .907, RMSEA = .083, 90% CI [.00, .19], and SRMR = .074. Although the RMSEA index is just over the recommended threshold of .08, the other fit statistics are favorable in indicating good (CFI, SRMR) and acceptable (TLI) model fit. Overall, the model provided adequate fit to the data: 聿2(5) = 7.95, p = .16.
We then analyzed the relationships between the variables in a structural model. As in the case of pragmatics, only the structural language latent factor was predictive of prosodic competence (汕 = .91, p < .001). The FB latent factor turned out to be not significant (汕 = .002, p = .99); the covariation path between FB and structural language was not significant either (汕 = .30, p = .11). Age was a significant predictor of both FB (汕 = .48, p < .001) and structural language ability (汕 = .50, p = .01) but not of prosody (汕 = ..10, p = .66). The indirect effect of age on prosody mediated by structural language was not significant (汕 = .45, p = .07). The specified model is presented in Figure 5.


Figure 4. 
Structural equation modeling (SEM) predicting pragmatic ability. A solid black line represents the significant direct paths with **p < 0.01, ***p < .001. A solid grey line represents non-significant direct paths. A dashed grey line represents non-significant indirect paths. UCT, Unexpected Content Task. Standardized path coefficients are shown along their path arrows.
5As in the case with the model for pragmatics, only the UCT answers were used to create the FB latent factor, since the results of the ULT were not correlated with the results of the UCT. We also ran a complementary analysis to support the results of the reported model. The SEM model with a latent FB factor based on the UCT scores and the SEM model with the composite FB score (based on the both UCT and ULT scores) revealed the same results.12M. PRONINA ET AL.Discussion
The present study investigated the relative role of structural language and of aspects of social cognition, such as mentalizing, in preschoolers＊ communicative abilities involving (a) pragmatics and (b) prosody. Innovatively with respect to the previous literature, we addressed these issues in a comprehensive fashion by jointly examining the role of a set of structural language (i.e., syntax and vocabulary) and mentalizing skills (i.e., false belief, emotion understanding, and metacognitive vocabulary) in both expressive pragmatics and prosodic abilities through multiple statistical approaches. Our findings suggest that, at around the age of 4, both expressive pragmatic and prosodic abilities are strongly related to the other linguistic skills (especially syntax), while the role of mentalizing is statistically negligible, as demonstrated by the most comprehensive modeling. These findings have important theoretical implications and are of practical interest for both educational and clinical fields.
Starting with the findings on expressive pragmatics skills, we expected the pragmatic scores obtained in the APT (Pronina et al., 2019) to be strongly related to structural language and less so to mentalizing. The results confirmed our expectations. Simple correlational analyses revealed significant correlations between pragmatic scores and both language and mentalizing skills, but correlations with language appeared numerically (and statistically) stronger. When using more sophisticated analyses, both the multiple regression and the SEM approaches highlighted that only structural language scores played a role in predicting pragmatic ability. The findings on the significant relationships between pragmatic and other language measures are fully in line with the previous literature. For instance, Norbury (2004) and a recent study by Andr谷s-Roqueta et al. (2021) outlined the role of structural language skills in pragmatic competence, and the link between the two has been reported by a number of studies in preschool and school-aged children (see Matthews et al., 2018). With respect to this literature, the main innovations of our study concern the kind of pragmatic skills tested and the age under investigation. Whereas the vast majority of previous studies focused on inferential pragmatic abilities (e.g., irony, see Angeleri & Airenti, 2014; conversational perspective-taking, see Bernard & Deleau, 2007), the pragmatic skills measured here are related more to verbal aspects of discourse production. In the APT, children are asked to utter a speech act as a verbal response to the prompted social interaction. One likely explanation for the role of structural linguistic skills observed here is therefore that these are necessary in order to shape the felicitous speech acts: in other words, to produce pragmatically appropriate responses the child must adequately formulate and structure sentences, which requires active lexical and syntactic planning.


Figure 5. 
Structural equation modeling (SEM) predicting prosodic ability. A solid black line represents the significant direct paths with **p < 0.01, ***p < .001. A solid grey line represents non-significant direct paths. A dashed grey line represents non-significant indirect paths. UCT, Unexpected Content Task. Standardized path coefficients are shown along their path arrows.
In contrast to the findings of the role of structural language skills, our results indicated that pragmatic abilities were not related to mentalizing skills. As a first comment, the change in the pattern of relationships from the correlations 每 where pragmatics and mentalizing were signifi-cantly associated 每 to the other statistical approaches 每 where the role of mentalizing, specifically false belief, became negligible 每 needs some technical explanation. Unlike correlations, multiple regressions and SEM simultaneously account for several variables, and it is not uncommon to see correlations disappear when more complex statistical analyses are used (Cohen et al., 2003, pp. 6每 7). In the SEM model the variance that false belief, structural language, age, and pragmatics share was taken into account, and therefore false belief was no longer a significant predictor of pragmatic scores.6 Hints to this came also from the fact that the correlations between pragmatics and structural language measures are stronger than the correlations between pragmatics and mentalizing measures. Our findings thus highlight the importance of using statistical approaches that enable researchers to evaluate the role of several variables in a comprehensive way, making it possible to observe genuine relationships between these variables.
At the theoretical level, the finding of the missing relationship between pragmatics and mentalizing could be explained by the type of pragmatic skills under consideration. The focus on expressive aspects of pragmatic abilities adopted in this study allows us to expand the evidence that the link between pragmatics and mentalizing is not systematic, something that was previously observed mainly in relation to receptive pragmatics (Bernard & Deleau, 2007; Banasik, 2013; Angeleri & Airenti, 2014; Bosco & Gabbatore, 2017a, 2017b). We believe that, when trying to ascertain the role of socio- cognitive skills in pragmatic competence, it is key to distinguish between different pragmatic aspects. Specifically, results might change depending on the pragmatic skills under consideration. Non-literal language skills (e.g., irony detection) largely capitalize on the ability to derive the speaker＊s intended meaning and mental state, while some other pragmatic skills might be closer to the interface with structural language (e.g., scalar implicatures), and some tasks selectively involve mentalizing, depend-ing on the content to infer, as in the case of psychological vs. physical metaphors (Lecce et al., 2019). The importance of distinguishing between linguistic pragmatic (e.g., scalar implicatures) and social pragmatic (e.g., irony comprehension) tasks has recently been highlighted by Andr谷s-Roqueta and Katsos (2017; 2020; see also Schaeken et al., 2018), though with examples related mainly to the receptive domain. In the expressive domain, it is likely that the task of producing pragmatically appropriate speech acts, as requested in the APT, does not fully exploit mentalizing skills but rather engages the linguistic tools available to the child.
Similarly, results might change depending on the specific aspects of social cognition under con-sideration. Pragmatic behavior is deeply connected with the social dimension; it is shaped by the social context (Brown & Levinson, 1987) and impacts social relationships (Agostoni et al., 2021; e.g., Del Sette et al., 2021). Mentalizing is a fundamental aspect of social cognition, but there are several other socio-cognitive skills that allow us to interact socially, such as affiliation, agent recognition, biological motion perception, empathy, social attention, and social learning, among others (see Happ谷 et al., 2017, for a review). Whereas our data point to a weak relationship between expressive pragmatics and mentalizing (including false belief), we cannot exclude the possibility that a stronger relationship might be found when considering other socio-cognitive skills underlying social ability. It is also important to point out that our findings in the SEM model refer specifically to the role of a particular mentalizing skill (Theory of Mind as measured with false belief). False belief tasks used in this study, despite being standard and by far the most popular in developmental research, are sometimes criticized for focusing narrowly on only one aspect of belief understanding and measuring it in a rather categorical way (Wellman, 2018). We have tried to overcome the last limitation of the false belief task by using two different false belief sequences. However, it might be the case that other 6See also graphics illustrating the disappearing relationship between false belief and pragmatic scores on the OSF repository linked in the section Data availability statement.measures that test the understanding of belief more comprehensively, such as Theory of Mind scales (e.g., Wellman & Liu, 2004), could provide different insights into the pattern of associations between pragmatic and mentalizing skills.
Another possible explanation for the lack of a significant association between pragmatic abilities and mentalizing may be related to the specific developmental stage under investigation. Pragmatic skills develop throughout childhood (Matthews, 2014), and while the relationship between pragmatics and mentalizing is not robust in young preschoolers (3每4 years of age), it becomes stronger in older children (5- to 9-year-olds in Filippova & Astington, 2008; 8- to 9-year-olds in Lecce et al., 2019; Del Sette et al., 2020; 6- to 10-year-olds in Massaro et al., 2013; 8- to 10-year-olds in Nilsen et al., 2011; 5- to 7-year-olds in Winner & Leekam, 1991). We believe that it is plausible that the relationship between pragmatics and mentalizing may vary throughout development and is not yet strong in early devel-opmental stages, such as the one investigated here (3- to 4-year age range). It might well be the case that expressive pragmatics in the early preschool age is still very simple and involves mindreading aspects only to a limited extent. It is only in the later stages that conversation becomes more implicit and more complex discursive abilities requiring reading the others＊ mind are involved, with mentaliz-ing playing a greater role and contributing to explaining expressive pragmatic skills.
Since pragmatics and prosody are strongly interrelated, in this study we also analyzed the prosodic component of children＊s pragmatic responses. Based on previous developmental research (e.g., de Carvalho et al., 2018; Frota et al., 2020), we hypothesized that expressive prosodic skills would be related to and predicted by other language abilities, while the role of mentalizing was expected to be trivial. Our results confirmed this hypothesis. Pairwise correlations showed a relationship between prosody and structural language scores, as well as between prosody and some measures of mentalizing; similarly, multiple regression analyses pointed to a significant role of both structural language and false belief skills. However, when, in the SEM model, we controlled for measurement errors and for both direct and indirect relationships, only language turned out to be a significant predictor of prosodic performance. Similar to what we observed in the model of pragmatics, when the common variance among false belief, age, structural language, and prosody is accounted for, false belief is no longer a significant predictor of prosodic skills.
Elaborating further, these findings extend previous results in early infancy that revealed prosody＊s bootstrapping role in language acquisition and infants＊ use of prosodic cues to build their knowledge of syntactic structures and to infer word meaning (de Carvalho et al., 2018). Specifically, our results show that prosody also continues to be related to structural language later in development, that is, during the preschool years.
As for the lack of evidence supporting a relationship between mentalizing and prosody, while, on the one hand, it goes against previous research highlighting the role of intonation for comprehension of mental and emotional states (e.g., Armstrong & H邦bscher, 2018), on the other hand, the lack of evidence resonates with studies on atypical populations. For example, children and adolescents with ASD were as accurate in processing vocal cues that require mentalizing and in detecting irony from prosodic cues as control participants were (Chevallier et al., 2011; Colich et al., 2012; Pexman et al., 2011; see Golan et al., 2006, for similar evidence in adults with Asperger Syndrome). Taken together, these studies suggest that difficulties in mentalizing do not necessarily entail difficulties in reading the mind in the voice. Our findings support this observation and extend it to expressive prosodic skills in typically developing preschoolers, as individual differences in prosodic expression abilities were not found to be related with mentalizing abilities.
It is important to highlight the parallels in the findings for pragmatics and prosody. The pattern of results reported for prosody is highly similar to the one observed for pragmatics. The most compre-hensive SEM analyses for the two dimensions depicted models where structural language was a strong predictor of pragmatic and prosodic skills, while false belief was not; the associations with other variables confirm the similarity. The remarkable resemblance in the map of associations that emerged from the SEM models for pragmatic and prosodic abilities strengthens the idea that the two develop in parallel and highlights the importance of accounting for prosodic expressions of pragmatic ability is key.
Our results also raise a question about the independent role of the different structural language components (syntax and vocabulary) in the prediction of expressive pragmatic and prosodic skills. In studies on pragmatics in typically developing children, the choice of other language variables is often limited to receptive vocabulary (e.g., Angeleri & Airenti, 2014; Nilsen et al., 2011), while a syntax measure is rarely included. However, research on atypical populations specifically emphasized the role of syntax in pragmatic-related domains. For instance, once syntactic abilities were accounted for, the performance in idiom comprehension by children with ASD and controls was comparable (Whyte et al., 2014), while semantic skills did not predict additional variance in performance (Norbury, 2004). In line with this literature, the results of our study suggest that even though both vocabulary and syntax are important variables contributing to pragmatic and prosodic performance, syntax is a stronger predictor. More generally, our findings highlight the importance of considering a number of language aspects, from syntax to pragmatics, when evaluating the linguistic profile of a child.
A possible limitation of the present study is that we did not consider other socio-cognitive aspects. As discussed above, there are several components of social cognition which were not considered here. Evidence shows that some of them 每 for example, empathy 每 are related to pragmatic competence. Specifically, Esteve-Gibert et al. (2020) reported that more empathic individuals can disambiguate pragmatically ambiguous sentences better than less empathic individuals and Ornaghi et al. (2020) found correlations between 2- to 3-year-old children＊s empathic skills and language abilities (including pragmatics). Future research investigating the relationship between pragmatics and social cognition would benefit from a broader consideration of socio-cognitive aspects. Furthermore, executive func-tions were not considered in this study. The previous literature offers evidence that the domain of executive function is associated with pragmatic proficiency and that specific executive functions, such as working memory and inhibition, can explain variance in different kinds of pragmatic tasks (e.g., Filipe et al., 2020; see Matthews et al., 2018 for a review). Some authors have suggested the importance of executive functions, specifically for expressive pragmatic skills in typically developing preschoolers (Blain-Bri豕re et al., 2014). Executive functions might also be important for prosody, as suggested in another study in older, 6- to 9-year-old, children (Filipe et al., 2018). We suggest that further research also include measures of executive function in order to control for this factor and to investigate its possible specific role in the map of associations between pragmatic, prosodic, and general cognitive skills.
Taken collectively, our study sheds new light on the literature on pragmatic development in preschoolers with important findings on the relationship between expressive pragmatics and other skills, accounting also for prosodic aspects. Specifically, our study shows that in the early preschool ages, pragmatics and prosody are closely intertwined with the development of other language skills and relate less strongly to mentalizing. The implications of these results are both theoretical and practical. Theoretically, the present results contribute to the wide debate on the relationship between pragmatics and social cognition, specifically mentalizing (Bambini et al., 2016, 2020; Lecce et al., 2019; Fairchild & Papafragou, 2021). In line with the recent view that pragmatics and mentalizing do not overlap (Bosco et al., 2018), we offer fresh evidence that expressive pragmatic skills, including prosody, are to some extent separate from mentalizing skills, especially false belief, in early development. Practically, the present findings may be of relevance for educational and clinical applications. Pragmatics is associated with far-reaching educational outcomes (MacWhinney & Bornstein, 2003). In particular, individual differences in pragmatic competence are associated negatively with academic literacy difficulties (Whitehouse et al., 2009) and positively with successful academic development, including math (Ramsook et al., 2020), reading comprehension (Tonini et al., 2022), writing skills (Troia, 2011), and literacy at large (Dickinson & McCabe, 2001; Paris & Paris, 2003). Since pragmatics affects educational achievements, it seems paramount to develop training interventions in order to promote pragmatic abilities in children. The findings of the present study offer a promising strategy for improving pragmatic skills, starting from preschool ages. Because expressive pragmatic abilities are strongly related to other language skills in young children, promoting structural linguistic abilities can be of help in interventions targeting pragmatic improvements. We suggest that practicing educators and speech-language therapists designing pragmatic interventions should incorporate strategies for improving structural aspects of language, especially in early developmental stages. We believe that the implementation of training of this kind in educational settings could be beneficial for fostering pragmatic development and improving children＊s academic performance as well as social relationships.
Acknowledgement
We thank the tutors and coordinators of the two participating schools in Barcelona, Escola Antoni Brusi and Escola Bogatell, and all the children and their families for having participated in this study. We are grateful to our research assistants Eva Castillo, Anna Massanas, Ainhoa David, and J迆lia Florit for help in data collection. We are also thankful to Irene Ceccato for the help with SEM models.
Disclosure statement
No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s).
Funding
This work was supported by the Generalitat de Catalunya [2017 SGR_971,2020 FI_B2 00192]; Ministerio de Ciencia, Innovaci車n y Universidades [PGC2018-097007-B-I00].
ORCID
Mariia Pronina Orcid Logo
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8795-2984
Pilar Prieto Orcid Logo
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8175-1081
Luca Bischetti Orcid Logo
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8875-1092
Valentina Bambini Orcid Logo
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-5770-228X
Data availability statement
The dataset and the code used to run the analyses in R are available in the Open Science Framework repository 每 https:// osf.io/jy4wv.
References
Agostoni, G., Bambini, V., Bechi, M., Buonocore, M., Spangaro, M., Repaci, F., Cocchi, F., Bianchi, L., Guglielmino, C., Sapienza, J., Cavallaro, R., & Bosia, M. (2021). Communicative-pragmatic abilities mediate the relationship between cognition and daily functioning in schizophrenia. Neuropsychology, 35(1), 42每56. https://doi.org/10.1037/ neu0000664 Akmajian, A., Demers, R. A., Farmer, A. K., & Harnish, R. M. (2010). Linguistics: An introduction to language and communication (sixth ed.). The MIT Press. https://doi.org/10.2307/417355 Alonso-Alberca, N., Vergara, A. I., Fern芍ndez-Berrocal, P., Johnson, S. R., & Izard, C. E. (2012). The adaptation and validation of the emotion matching task for preschool children in Spain. International Journal of Behavioral Development, 36(6), 489每494. https://doi.org/10.1177/0165025412462154 Andr谷s-Roqueta, C., & Katsos, N. (2017). The contribution of grammar, vocabulary and Theory Of Mind in pragmatic language competence in children with autistic spectrum disorders. Frontiers in Psychology, 8, 996. https://doi.org/10. 3389/fpsyg.2017.00996 Andr谷s-Roqueta, C., & Katsos, N. (2020). A distinction between linguistic and social pragmatics helps the precise characterization of pragmatic challenges in children with autism spectrum disorders and developmental language disorder. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 63(5), 1494每1508. https://doi.org/10.1044/2020_JSLHR- 19-00263 Andr谷s-Roqueta, C., Garcia-Molina, I., & Flores-Buils, R. (2021). Association between CCC-2 and structural language, pragmatics, social cognition, and executive functions in children with developmental language disorder. Children, 8 (2), 123. https://doi.org/10.3390/children8020123 Angeleri, R., & Airenti, G. (2014). The development of joke and irony understanding: A study with 3- to 6-year-old children. Canadian Journal of Experimental Psychology/Revue Canadienne de Psychologie Exp谷rimentale, 68(2), 133每146. https://doi.org/10.1037/cep0000011 Ariel, M. (2010). Defining pragmatics. Cambridge University Press. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511777912 Armstrong, M., & H邦bscher, I. (2018). Children＊s development of internal state prosody. In P. Prieto & N. Esteve-Gibert (Eds.), The development of prosody in first language acquisition (pp. 271每293). John Benjamins. https://doi.org/10. 1075/tilar.23.14arm Armstrong, M., Esteve-Gibert, N., H邦bscher, I., Igualada, A., & Prieto, P. (2018). Developmental and cognitive aspects of children＊s disbelief comprehension through intonation and facial gesture. First Language, 38(6), 596每616. https://doi. org/10.1177/0142723718789278 Atkinson, L., Slade, L., Powell, D., & Levy, J. P. (2017). Theory of mind in emerging reading comprehension: A longitudinal study of early indirect and direct effects. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 164, 225每238. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp.2017.04.007 Baayen, R. H. (2008). Analyzing linguistic data: A practical introduction to statistics. Cambridge University Press. https:// doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511801686 Bambini, V., Arcara, G., Martinelli, I., Bernini, S., Alvisi, E., Moro, A., Cappa, S. F., & Ceroni, M. (2016). Communication and pragmatic breakdowns in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients. Brain and Language, 153- 154, 1每12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bandl.2015.12.002 Bambini, V., Bischetti, L., Bonomi, C. G., Arcara, G., Lecce, S., & Ceroni, M. (2020). Beyond the motor account of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: Verbal humour and its relationship with the cognitive and pragmatic profile. International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders, 55(5), 751每764. https://doi.org/10.1111/1460- 6984.12561 Banasik, N. (2013). Non-literal speech comprehension in preschool children - an example from a study on verbal irony. Psychology of Language and Communication, 17(3), 309每323. https://doi.org/10.2478/plc-2013-0020 Baron-Cohen, S., Leslie, A. M., & Frith, U. (1985). Does the autistic child have a ※theory of mind§? Cognition, 21(1), 37每46. https://doi.org/10.1016/0010-0277(85)90022-8 Bentler, P. M. (1990). Comparative fit indexes in structural models. Psychological Bulletin, 107(2), 238每246. https://doi. org/10.1037/0033-2909.107.2.238 Bernard, S., & Deleau, M. (2007). Conversational perspective-taking and false belief attribution: A longitudinal study. British Journal of Developmental Psychology, 25(3), 443每460. https://doi.org/10.1348/026151006X171451 Bischetti, L., Ceccato, I., Lecce, S., Cavallini, E., & Bambini, V. (2019). Pragmatics and theory of mind in older adults＊ humor comprehension. Current Psychology, 1每17. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12144-019-00295-w Blain-Bri豕re, B., Bouchard, C., & Bigras, N. (2014). The role of executive functions in the pragmatic skills of children age 4-5. Frontiers in Psychology, 5, 240. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00240 Bollen, K. A. (1989). Structural equations with latent variables. John Wiley & Sons. https://doi.org/10.1002/ 9781118619179 Bosch, L., & Sebasti芍n-Gall谷s, N. (2001). Evidence of early language discrimination abilities in infants from bilingual environments. Infancy, 2(1), 29每49. https://doi.org/10.1207/S15327078IN0201_3 Bosco, F. M., & Gabbatore, I. (2017a). Theory of mind in recognizing and recovering communicative failures. Applied Psycholinguistics, 38(1), 57每88. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0142716416000047 Bosco, F. M., & Gabbatore, I. (2017b). Sincere, deceitful, and ironic communicative acts and the role of the theory of mind in childhood. Frontiers in Psychology, 8, 21. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2017.00021 Bosco, F. M., Tirassa, M., & Gabbatore, I. (2018). Why pragmatics and Theory Of Mind do not (completely) overlap. Frontiers in Psychology, 9, 1453. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2018.01453 Brown, P., & Levinson, S. C. (1987). Politeness: Some universals in language usage. Cambridge University Press.Carrow-Woolfolk, E. (2017). Comprehensive assessment of spoken language (CASL-2) (2nd ed.). Western Psychological Services.Castillo, E., Pronina, M., H邦bscher, I., & Prieto, P. (2021). Narrative performance and sociopragmatic abilities in preschool children are linked to multimodal imitation skills. Journal of Child Language, 1每26. https://doi.org/10.1017/ S0305000921000404 Chen, A. (2018). Get the focus right across languages: Acquisition of prosodic focus-marking in production. In P. Prieto & N. Esteve-Gibert (Eds.), The development of prosody in first language acquisition (pp. 295每316).John Benjamins. https://doi.org/10.1075/tilar.23.15che Chen, A., Esteve-Gibert, N., Prieto, P., & Redford, M. A. (2020). Development of phrasal prosody from infancy to late childhood. In C. Gussenhoven & A. Chen (Eds.), The oxford handbook of language prosody (pp. 562每653). Oxford University Press.Chevallier, C., Noveck, I., Happ谷, F., & Wilson, D. (2011). What＊s in a voice? Prosody as a test case for the Theory Of Mind account of autism. Neuropsychologia, 49(3), 507每517. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2010.11. 042 Cohen, J., Cohen, P., West, S. G., & Aiken, L. S. (2003). Applied multiple regression/correlation analysis for the behavioral sciences (3rd ed.). Lawrence Erlbaum Associates Publishers. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203774441 Colich, N. L., Wang, A.-T., Rudie, J. D., Hernandez, L. M., Bookheimer, S. Y., & Dapretto, M. (2012). Atypical neural processing of ironic and sincere remarks in children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders. Metaphor and Symbol, 27(1), 70每92. https://doi.org/10.1080/10926488.2012.638856 Culpeper, J. (2011). It＊s not what you said, it＊s how you said it!§: Prosody and impoliteness. In Group Linguistic Politeness Research (Ed.), Discursive approaches to politeness (pp. 57每84). Mouton de Gruyter. https://doi.org/10. 1515/9783110238679.57 de Carvalho, A., Dautriche, I., Millotte, S., & Christophe, A. (2018). Early perception of phrasal prosody and its role in syntactic and lexical acquisition. In P. Prieto & N. Esteve-Gibert (Eds.), The development of prosody in first language acquisition, (pp. 17每35. John Benjamins.De Rosnay, M., Fink, E., Begeer, S., Slaughter, V., & Peterson, C. C. (2014). Talking theory of mind talk: Young school- aged children＊s everyday conversation and understanding of mind and emotion. Journal of Child Language, 41(5), 1179每1193. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0305000913000433 Del Sette, P., Bambini, V., Bischetti, L., & Lecce, S. (2020). Longitudinal associations between theory of mind and metaphor understanding during middle childhood. Cognitive Development, 56, 1每13. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cog dev.2020.100958 Del Sette, P., Ronchi, L., Bambini, V., & Lecce, S. (2021). Longitudinal associations between metaphor understanding and peer relationships in middle childhood. Infant and Child Development, 30(4), e2232. https://doi.org/10.1002/icd. 2232 Dickinson, D. K., & McCabe, A. (2001). Bringing it all together: The multiple origins, skills, and environmental supports of early literacy. Learning Disabilities Research and Practice, 16(4), 186每202. https://doi.org/10.1111/0938-8982.00019 Esteve-Gibert, N., Prieto, P., & Liszkowski, U. (2017). Twelve-month-olds understand social intentions based on prosody and gesture shape. Infancy, 22(1), 108每129. https://doi.org/10.1111/infa.12146 Esteve-Gibert, N., & Prieto, P. (2018). Early development of the prosody-meaning interface. In P. Prieto & N. Esteve- Gibert (Eds.), The development of prosody in first language acquisition (pp. 227每246). John Benjamins. https://doi.org/ 10.1075/tilar.23.12est Esteve-Gibert, N., Schafer, A. J., Hemforth, B., Portes, C., Pozniak, C., & D＊Imperio, M. (2020). Empathy influences how listeners interpret intonation and meaning when words are ambiguous. Memory & Cognition, 48(4), 566每580. https:// doi.org/10.3758/s13421-019-00990-w Fairchild, S., & Papafragou, A. (2021). The role of executive function and Theory Of Mind in pragmatic computations. Cognitive Science, 45(2), e12938. https://doi.org/10.1111/cogs.12938 Filipe, M. G., Frota, S., & Vicente, S. G. (2018). Executive functions and prosodic abilities in children with high-functioning autism. Frontiers in Psychology, 9, 359. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2018.00359 Filipe, M. G., Veloso, A., Frota, S., & Vicente, S. G. (2020). Executive functions and pragmatics in children with high-functioning autism. Reading and Writing, 33(4), 859每875. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11145-019-09975-2 Filippova, E., & Astington, J. W. (2008). Further development in social reasoning revealed in discourse irony understanding. Child Development, 79(1), 126每138. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8624.2007.01115.x Fleiss, J. L., Levin, B., & Paik, M. C. (1981). The measurement of interrater agreement. In J. L. Fleiss, B. Levin, & M. C. Paik (Eds.), Statistical methods for rates and proportions, 598每627, (3rd ed). Wiley.Frith, U., & Frith, C. D. (2003). Development and neurophysiology of mentalizing. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 358(1431), 459每473. https://doi.org/10.1098/rstb.2002.1218 Frith, C. D., & Frith, U. (2007). Social cognition in humans. Current Biology, 17(16), R724每R732. https://doi.org/10. 1016/j.cub.2007.05.068 Frota, S., & Butler, J. (2018). Early development of intonation. In P. Prieto & N. Esteve-Gibert (Eds.), The development of prosody in first language acquisition (pp. 145每164). John Benjamins. https://doi.org/10.1075/tilar.23.08fro Frota, S., Pejovic, J., Severino, C., & Vig芍rio, M. (2020). Looking for the edge: Emerging segmentation abilities in atypical development. Proceedings of the International Conference on Speech Prosody, Tokyo, Japan, 814每818. ISCA. https:// doi.org/10.21437/SpeechProsody.2020-166 Ganzeboom, H. B. G., De Graaf, P. M., Treiman, D. J., & De Leeuw, J. (1992). A standard international socio-economic index of occupational status. Social Science Research, 21(1), 1每56. https://doi.org/10.1016/0049-089X(92)90017-B Girli, A., & Tekin, D. (2010). Investigating false belief levels of typically developed children and children with autism. Procedia, Social and Behavioral Sciences, 2(2), 1944每1950. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2010.03.261 Golan, O., Baron-Cohen, S., & Hill, J. (2006). The Cambridge Mindreading (CAM) face-voice battery: Testing complex emotion recognition in adults with and without Asperger syndrome. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 36(2), 169每183. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10803-005-0057-y Gopnik, A., & Astington, J. W. (1988). Children＊s understanding of representational change and its relation to the understanding of false belief and the appearance-reality distinction. Child Development, 59(1), 26每37. https://doi.org/ 10.1111/j.1467-8624.1988.tb03192.x Grazzani, I. G., & Ornaghi, V. (2011). Emotional state talk and emotion understanding: A training study with preschool children. Journal of Child Language, 38(5), 1124每1139. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0305000910000772 Gross, M., Buac, M., & Kaushanskaya, M. (2014). Conceptual scoring of receptive and expressive vocabulary measures in simultaneous and sequential bilingual children. American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology, 23(4), 574每586. https://doi.org/10.1044/2014_AJSLP-13-0026 Happ谷, F., Cook, J. L., & Bird, G. (2017). The structure of social cognition: In(ter)dependence of sociocognitive processes. Annual Review of Psychology, 68(1), 243每267. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-010416-044046 Hiller, R. M., Weber, N., & Young, R. L. (2014). The validity and scalability of the theory of mind scale with toddlers and preschoolers. Psychological Assessment, 26(4), 1388每1393. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0038320 Hooker, C. I., Verosky, S. C., Germine, L. T., Knight, R. T., & D＊Esposito, M. (2008). Mentalizing about emotion and its relationship to empathy. Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience, 3(3), 204每217. https://doi.org/10.1093/scan/ nsn019 Hoyle, R. (1995). The structural equation modeling approach: Basic concepts and fundamental issues. In R. H. Hoyle (Ed.), Structural equation modeling (pp. 158每176). Sage.Hu, L. T., & Bentler, P. M. (1999). Cutoff criteria for fit indexes in covariance structure analysis: Conventional criteria versus new alternatives. Structural Equation Modeling, 6(1), 1每55. https://doi.org/10.1080/10705519909540118 Hughes, C., Adlam, A., Happe, F., Jackson, J., Taylor, A., & Caspi, A. (2000). Good test每retest reliability for standard and advanced false-belief tasks across a wide range of abilities. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, and Allied Disciplines, 41(4), 483每490. https://doi.org/10.1111/1469-7610.00633 Hyter, Y. D. (2017). Pragmatic assessment and intervention in children. In L. Cummings (Ed.), Research in clinical pragmatics (pp. 493每526). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-47489-2_20 Iacobucci, D. (2010). Structural equations modeling: Fit indices, sample size, and advanced topics. Journal of Consumer Psychology, 20(1), 90每98. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcps.2009.09.003 Ito, K. (2018). Gradual development of focus prosody and affect prosody comprehension. In P. Prieto & N. Esteve-Gibert (Eds.), The development of prosody in first language acquisition (pp. 247每270). John Benjamins. https://doi.org/10. 1075/tilar.23.13ito Kline, R. B. (2005). Principles and practice of structural equation modeling. Guilford Press.Lecce, S., Ronchi, L., Del Sette, P., Bischetti, L., & Bambini, V. (2019). Interpreting physical and mental metaphors: Is Theory Of Mind associated with pragmatics in middle childhood? Journal of Child Language, 46(2), 393每407. https:// doi.org/10.1017/S030500091800048X Levinson, S. C. (1983). Pragmatics. Cambridge University Press. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511813313 Lockl, K., & Schneider, W. (2006). Precursors of metamemory in young children: The role of theory of mind and metacognitive vocabulary. Metacognition Learning, 1(1), 15每31. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11409-006-6585-9 MacWhinney, B., & Bornstein, M. H. (2003). Language and literacy. In M. H. Bornstein, L. Davidson, C. L. M. Keyes, & K. A. Moore (Eds.), Well-being: Positive development across the life course (pp. 331每339). Psychology Press. https:// doi.org/10.4324/9781410607171 Mahy, C. E. V., Bernstein, D. M., Gerrard, L. D., & Atance, C. M. (2017). Testing the validity of a continuous false belief task in 3- to 7-year-old children. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 160, 50每66. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jecp. 2017.03.010 Massaro, D., Valle, A., & Marchetti, A. (2013). Irony and second-order false belief in children: What changes when mothers rather than siblings speak? European Journal of Developmental Psychology, 10(3), 301每317. https://doi.org/ 10.1080/17405629.2012.672272 Massaro, D., Valle, A., & Marchetti, A. (2014). Do social norms, false belief understanding, and metacognitive vocabulary influence irony comprehension? A study of five- and seven-year-old children. European Journal of Developmental Psychology, 11(3), 292每304. https://doi.org/10.1080/17405629.2013.821407 Mathews, R., Dissanayake, C., & Pratt, C. (2003). The relationship between theory of mind and conservation abilities in children using an active/inactive paradigm. Australian Journal of Psychology, 55(1), 35每42. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 00049530412331312854 Matthews, D. (Ed.). (2014). Pragmatic development in first language acquisition. John Benjamins. https://doi.org/10. 2307/23093720 Matthews, D., Biney, H., & Abbot-Smith, K. (2018). Individual differences in children＊s pragmatic ability: A review of associations with formal language, social cognition, and executive functions. Language Learning and Development, 14 (3), 186每223. https://doi.org/10.1080/15475441.2018.1455584 Nilsen, E. S., Glenwright, M., & Huyder, V. (2011). Children and adults understand that verbal irony interpretation depends on listener knowledge. Journal of Cognition and Development, 12(3), 374每409. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 15248372.2010.544693 Norbury, C. (2004). Factors supporting idiom comprehension in children with communication disorders. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 47(5), 1179每1193. https://doi.org/10.1044/1092-4388(2004/087 )Ornaghi, V., Brockmeier, J., & Grazzani, I. G. (2011). The role of language games in children＊s understanding of mental states: A training study. Journal of Cognition and Development, 12(2), 239每259. https://doi.org/10.1080/15248372. 2011.563487 Ornaghi, V., Conte, E., & Grazzani, I. G. (2020). Empathy in toddlers: The role of emotion regulation, language ability, and maternal emotion socialization style. Frontiers in Psychology, 11, 2844. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2020.586862 Papakyritsis, I. (2021). Acoustic phonetics for the speech clinician. In M. J. Ball (Ed.), Manual of clinical phonetics (pp. 16每26). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780429320903-2 Paris, A. H., & Paris, S. G. (2003). Assessing narrative comprehension in young children. Reading Research Quarterly, 38 (1), 36每76. https://doi.org/10.1598/rrq.38.1.3 Pelletier, J., & Astington, J. W. (1998). Metacognitive vocabulary test. Institute of Child Study, University of Toronto.Pexman, P. M., Rostad, K. R., McMorris, C. A., Climie, E. A., Stowkowy, J., & Glenwright, M. R. (2011). Processing of ironic language in children with high-functioning autism spectrum disorder. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 41(8), 1097每1112. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10803-010-1131-7 Prieto, P. (2015). Intonational meaning. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews. Cognitive Science, 6(4), 371每381. https://doi. org/10.1002/wcs.1352 Pronina, M., H邦bscher, I., Vil角-Gim谷nez, I., & Prieto, P. (2019). Anew tool to assess pragmatic prosody in children: Evidence from 3- to 4-year-olds In S. Calhoun, P. Escudero, M. Tabain & P. Warren (eds.) Proceedings of the 19th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences, Melbourne, Australia 2019, 3145每3149. Canberra, Australia: Australasian Speech Science and Technology Association Inc.Pronina, M., H邦bscher, I., Vil角-Gim谷nez, I., & Prieto, P. (2021). Bridging the gap between prosody and pragmatics: The acquisition of pragmatic prosody in the preschool years and its relation with Theory of Mind. Frontiers in Psychology, 2962. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.662124 Pronina, M., H邦bscher, I., Holler, J., & Prieto, P. (2021). Interactional training interventions boost children＊s expressive pragmatic abilities: Evidence from a novel multidimensional testing approach. Cognitive Development, 57, 101003. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogdev.2020.101003 R Core Team. (2020). R: A language and environment for statistical computing. Foundation for Statistical Computing. https://www.r-project.org/ Ramsook, K. A., Welsh, J. A., & Bierman, K. L. (2020). What you say, and how you say it: Preschoolers＊ growth in vocabulary and communication skills differentially predict kindergarten academic achievement and self-regulation. Social Development, 29(3), 783每800. https://doi.org/10.1111/sode.12425 Rasinski, T. (2004). Creating Fluent readers. Educational Leadership, 61(4), 46每51. https://www.ascd.org/el/articles/ creating-fluent-readers Renfrew, C. (2006). Bus story test: A test of narrative speech (4th ed.). Speechmark.Rosseel, Y. (2012). Lavaan: An R package for structural equation modeling. Journal of Statistical Software, 48(2), 1每36. https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v048.i02 Saborit Mallol, C., & Juli芍n Marz芍, J. P. (2005). L＊avaluacio del Llenguatge Infantil, ELI [assessment of children＊s language]. Publicacions de la Universitat Jaume I.Schaeken, W., Van Haeren, M., & Bambini, V. (2018). The understanding of scalar implicatures in children with autism spectrum disorder: Dichotomized responses to violations of informativeness. Frontiers in Psychology, 9, 1266. https:// doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2018.01266 Schreiber, J. B. (2008). Core reporting practices in structural equation modeling. Research in Social and Administrative Pharmacy, 4(2), 83每97. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sapharm.2007.04.003 Scott-Phillips, T. C. (2017). Pragmatics and the aims of language evolution. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 24(1), 186每 189. https://doi.org/10.3758/s13423-016-1061-2 Snow, P., & Douglas, J. (2017). Psychosocial aspects of pragmatic disorders. In L. Cummings (Ed.), Research in clinical pragmatics (pp. 617每649). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-47489-2_23 Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (2002). Pragmatics, modularity and mind-reading. Mind & Language, 17(1-2), 3每33. https:// doi.org/10.1111/1468-0017.00186 Sperber, D., & Wilson, D. (2005). Pragmatics. In F. Jackson & M. Smith (Eds.), The Oxford handbook of contemporary philosophy (pp. 468每501). Oxford University Press.Thorson, J. (2018). The role of prosody in early word learning: Behavioral evidence. In P. Prieto & N. Esteve-Gibert (Eds.), The development of prosody in first language acquisition (pp. 59每77). John Benjamins. https://doi.org/10.1075/ tilar.23.04tho Tonini, E., Lecce, S., Del Sette, P., Bianco, F., Canal, P., & Bambini, V. (2022). Efficacy and benefits of the MetaCom training to promote metaphor comprehension in typical development. First Language, 42(3), 466每496. https://doi. org/10.1177/01427237221081201 Troia, G. A. (2011). How might pragmatic language skills affect the written expression of students with language learning disabilities? Topics in Language Disorders, 31(1), 40每53. https://doi.org/10.1097/TLD.0b013e31820a0b71 Verschueren, J. (2012). The pragmatic perspective. In J.-O. .stman & J. Verschueren (Eds.), Handbook of Pragmatics (pp. 1每36). John Benjamins Publishing Company. https://doi.org/10.1075/hop.m.prag Wellman, H. M., Cross, D., & Watson, J. (2001). Meta-analysis of theory-of-mind development: The truth about false belief. Child Development, 72(3), 655每684. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8624.00304 Wellman, H. M., & Liu, D. (2004). Scaling of theory-of-mind tasks. Child Development, 75(2), 523每541. https://doi.org/ 10.1111/j.1467-8624.2004.00691.x Wellman, H. M. (2018). Theory of mind: The state of the art. European Journal of Developmental Psychology, 15(6), 728每 755. https://doi.org/10.1080/17405629.2018.1435413 Whitehouse, A. J. O., Line, E. A., Watt, H. J., & Bishop, D. V. M. (2009). Qualitative aspects of developmental language impairment relate to language and literacy outcome in adulthood. International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders, 44(4), 489每510. https://doi.org/10.1080/13682820802708080 Whyte, E. M., Nelson, K. E., & Scherf, K. S. (2014). Idiom, syntax, and advanced theory of mind abilities in children with autism spectrum disorders. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 57(1), 120每130. https://doi.org/10. 1044/1092-4388(2013/12-0308 )Wilson, D. (2005). New directions for research on pragmatics and modularity. Lingua, 115(8), 1129每1146. https://doi. org/10.1016/j.lingua.2004.02.005 Winner, E., & Leekam, S. (1991). Distinguishing irony from deception: Understanding the speaker＊s second-order intention. British Journal of Developmental L＊ycbology, 9(2), 257每270. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2044-835X.1991. tb00875.x

